<!--|This file generated by command(leetcode description); DO NOT EDIT.    |-->
<!--+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-->
<!--|@author    awesee <openset.wang@gmail.com>                           |-->
<!--|@link      https://github.com/awesee                                 |-->
<!--|@home      https://github.com/awesee/leetcode                        |-->
<!--+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-->

[< Previous](../minimum-operations-to-convert-number "Minimum Operations to Convert Number")
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　
[Next >](../number-of-spaces-cleaning-robot-cleaned "Number of Spaces Cleaning Robot Cleaned")

## [2060. Check if an Original String Exists Given Two Encoded Strings (Hard)](https://leetcode.com/problems/check-if-an-original-string-exists-given-two-encoded-strings "同源字符串检测")

<p>An original string, consisting of lowercase English letters, can be encoded by the following steps:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Arbitrarily <strong>split</strong> it into a <strong>sequence</strong> of some number of <strong>non-empty</strong> substrings.</li>
	<li>Arbitrarily choose some elements (possibly none) of the sequence, and <strong>replace</strong> each with <strong>its length</strong> (as a numeric string).</li>
	<li><strong>Concatenate</strong> the sequence as the encoded string.</li>
</ul>

<p>For example, <strong>one way</strong> to encode an original string <code>&quot;abcdefghijklmnop&quot;</code> might be:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Split it as a sequence: <code>[&quot;ab&quot;, &quot;cdefghijklmn&quot;, &quot;o&quot;, &quot;p&quot;]</code>.</li>
	<li>Choose the second and third elements to be replaced by their lengths, respectively. The sequence becomes <code>[&quot;ab&quot;, &quot;12&quot;, &quot;1&quot;, &quot;p&quot;]</code>.</li>
	<li>Concatenate the elements of the sequence to get the encoded string: <code>&quot;ab121p&quot;</code>.</li>
</ul>

<p>Given two encoded strings <code>s1</code> and <code>s2</code>, consisting of lowercase English letters and digits <code>1-9</code> (inclusive), return <code>true</code><em> if there exists an original string that could be encoded as <strong>both</strong> </em><code>s1</code><em> and </em><code>s2</code><em>. Otherwise, return </em><code>false</code>.</p>

<p><strong>Note</strong>: The test cases are generated such that the number of consecutive digits in <code>s1</code> and <code>s2</code> does not exceed <code>3</code>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> s1 = &quot;internationalization&quot;, s2 = &quot;i18n&quot;
<strong>Output:</strong> true
<strong>Explanation:</strong> It is possible that &quot;internationalization&quot; was the original string.
- &quot;internationalization&quot; 
  -&gt; Split:       [&quot;internationalization&quot;]
  -&gt; Do not replace any element
  -&gt; Concatenate:  &quot;internationalization&quot;, which is s1.
- &quot;internationalization&quot;
  -&gt; Split:       [&quot;i&quot;, &quot;nternationalizatio&quot;, &quot;n&quot;]
  -&gt; Replace:     [&quot;i&quot;, &quot;18&quot;,                 &quot;n&quot;]
  -&gt; Concatenate:  &quot;i18n&quot;, which is s2
</pre>

<p><strong>Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> s1 = &quot;l123e&quot;, s2 = &quot;44&quot;
<strong>Output:</strong> true
<strong>Explanation:</strong> It is possible that &quot;leetcode&quot; was the original string.
- &quot;leetcode&quot; 
  -&gt; Split:      [&quot;l&quot;, &quot;e&quot;, &quot;et&quot;, &quot;cod&quot;, &quot;e&quot;]
  -&gt; Replace:    [&quot;l&quot;, &quot;1&quot;, &quot;2&quot;,  &quot;3&quot;,   &quot;e&quot;]
  -&gt; Concatenate: &quot;l123e&quot;, which is s1.
- &quot;leetcode&quot; 
  -&gt; Split:      [&quot;leet&quot;, &quot;code&quot;]
  -&gt; Replace:    [&quot;4&quot;,    &quot;4&quot;]
  -&gt; Concatenate: &quot;44&quot;, which is s2.
</pre>

<p><strong>Example 3:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> s1 = &quot;a5b&quot;, s2 = &quot;c5b&quot;
<strong>Output:</strong> false
<strong>Explanation:</strong> It is impossible.
- The original string encoded as s1 must start with the letter &#39;a&#39;.
- The original string encoded as s2 must start with the letter &#39;c&#39;.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= s1.length, s2.length &lt;= 40</code></li>
	<li><code>s1</code> and <code>s2</code> consist of digits <code>1-9</code> (inclusive), and lowercase English letters only.</li>
	<li>The number of consecutive digits in <code>s1</code> and <code>s2</code> does not exceed <code>3</code>.</li>
</ul>

### Related Topics
  [[String](../../tag/string/README.md)]
  [[Dynamic Programming](../../tag/dynamic-programming/README.md)]

### Hints
<details>
<summary>Hint 1</summary>
For s1 and s2, divide each into a sequence of single alphabet strings and digital strings. The problem now becomes comparing if two sequences are equal.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Hint 2</summary>
A single alphabet string has no variation, but a digital string has variations. For example: "124" can be interpreted as 1+2+4, 12+4, 1+24, and 124 wildcard characters.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Hint 3</summary>
There are four kinds of comparisons: a single alphabet vs another; a single alphabet vs a number, a number vs a single alphabet, and a number vs another number. In the case of a number vs another (a single alphabet or a number), can you decrease the number by the min length of both?
</details>

<details>
<summary>Hint 4</summary>
There is a recurrence relation in the search which ends when either a single alphabet != another, or one sequence ran out, or both sequences ran out.
</details>
