<!--|This file generated by command(leetcode description); DO NOT EDIT.    |-->
<!--+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-->
<!--|@author    openset <openset.wang@gmail.com>                           |-->
<!--|@link      https://github.com/openset                                 |-->
<!--|@home      https://github.com/openset/leetcode                        |-->
<!--+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-->

[< Previous](../task-scheduler "Task Scheduler")
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　
[Next >](../add-one-row-to-tree "Add One Row to Tree")

## [622. Design Circular Queue (Medium)](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-circular-queue "设计循环队列")

<p>Design your implementation of the circular queue. The circular queue is a linear data structure in which the operations are performed based on FIFO (First In First Out) principle and the last position is connected back to the first position to make a circle. It is also called &quot;Ring Buffer&quot;.</p>

<p>One of the benefits of the circular queue is that we can make use of the spaces in front of the queue. In a normal queue, once the queue becomes full, we cannot insert the next element even if there is a space in front of the queue. But using the circular queue, we can use the space to store new values.</p>

<p>Your implementation should support following operations:</p>

<ul>
	<li><code>MyCircularQueue(k)</code>: Constructor, set the size of the queue to be k.</li>
	<li><code>Front</code>: Get the front item from the queue. If the queue is empty, return -1.</li>
	<li><code>Rear</code>: Get the last item from the queue. If the queue is empty, return -1.</li>
	<li><code>enQueue(value)</code>: Insert an element into the circular queue. Return true if the operation is successful.</li>
	<li><code>deQueue()</code>: Delete an element from the circular queue. Return true if the operation is successful.</li>
	<li><code>isEmpty()</code>: Checks whether the circular queue is empty or not.</li>
	<li><code>isFull()</code>: Checks whether the circular queue is full or not.</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p><strong>Example:</strong></p>

<pre>
MyCircularQueue circularQueue = new MyCircularQueue(3); // set the size to be 3
circularQueue.enQueue(1); &nbsp;// return true
circularQueue.enQueue(2); &nbsp;// return true
circularQueue.enQueue(3); &nbsp;// return true
circularQueue.enQueue(4); &nbsp;// return false, the queue is full
circularQueue.Rear(); &nbsp;// return 3
circularQueue.isFull(); &nbsp;// return true
circularQueue.deQueue(); &nbsp;// return true
circularQueue.enQueue(4); &nbsp;// return true
circularQueue.Rear(); &nbsp;// return 4
</pre>
&nbsp;

<p><strong>Note:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>All values will be in the range of [0, 1000].</li>
	<li>The number of operations will be in the range of&nbsp;[1, 1000].</li>
	<li>Please do not use the built-in Queue library.</li>
</ul>

### Related Topics
  [[Design](../../tag/design/README.md)]
  [[Queue](../../tag/queue/README.md)]

### Similar Questions
  1. [Design Circular Deque](../design-circular-deque) (Medium)
