<!--|This file generated by command(leetcode description); DO NOT EDIT.    |-->
<!--+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-->
<!--|@author    openset <openset.wang@gmail.com>                           |-->
<!--|@link      https://github.com/openset                                 |-->
<!--|@home      https://github.com/openset/leetcode                        |-->
<!--+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-->

[< Previous](../shortest-completing-word "Shortest Completing Word")
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　
[Next >](../number-of-corner-rectangles "Number Of Corner Rectangles")

## [749. Contain Virus (Hard)](https://leetcode.com/problems/contain-virus "隔离病毒")

<p>
A virus is spreading rapidly, and your task is to quarantine the infected area by installing walls.
</p><p>
The world is modeled as a 2-D array of cells, where <code>0</code> represents uninfected cells, and <code>1</code> represents cells contaminated with the virus.  A wall (and only one wall) can be installed <b>between any two 4-directionally adjacent cells</b>, on the shared boundary.
</p><p>
Every night, the virus spreads to all neighboring cells in all four directions unless blocked by a wall.
Resources are limited. Each day, you can install walls around only one region -- the affected area (continuous block of infected cells) that threatens the most uninfected cells the following night. There will never be a tie.
</p><p>
Can you save the day? If so, what is the number of walls required? If not, and the world becomes fully infected, return the number of walls used.
</p><p>

<p><b>Example 1:</b><br />
<pre>
<b>Input:</b> grid = 
[[0,1,0,0,0,0,0,1],
 [0,1,0,0,0,0,0,1],
 [0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1],
 [0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0]]
<b>Output:</b> 10
<b>Explanation:</b>
There are 2 contaminated regions.
On the first day, add 5 walls to quarantine the viral region on the left. The board after the virus spreads is:

[[0,1,0,0,0,0,1,1],
 [0,1,0,0,0,0,1,1],
 [0,0,0,0,0,0,1,1],
 [0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1]]

On the second day, add 5 walls to quarantine the viral region on the right. The virus is fully contained.
</pre>
</p>

<p><b>Example 2:</b><br />
<pre>
<b>Input:</b> grid = 
[[1,1,1],
 [1,0,1],
 [1,1,1]]
<b>Output:</b> 4
<b>Explanation:</b> Even though there is only one cell saved, there are 4 walls built.
Notice that walls are only built on the shared boundary of two different cells.
</pre>
</p>

<p><b>Example 3:</b><br />
<pre>
<b>Input:</b> grid = 
[[1,1,1,0,0,0,0,0,0],
 [1,0,1,0,1,1,1,1,1],
 [1,1,1,0,0,0,0,0,0]]
<b>Output:</b> 13
<b>Explanation:</b> The region on the left only builds two new walls.
</pre>
</p>

<p><b>Note:</b><br>
<ol>
<li>The number of rows and columns of <code>grid</code> will each be in the range <code>[1, 50]</code>.</li>
<li>Each <code>grid[i][j]</code> will be either <code>0</code> or <code>1</code>.</li>
<li>Throughout the described process, there is always a contiguous viral region that will infect <b>strictly more</b> uncontaminated squares in the next round.</li>
</ol>
</p>

### Related Topics
  [[Depth-first Search](../../tag/depth-first-search/README.md)]

### Hints
<details>
<summary>Hint 1</summary>
The implementation is long - we want to perfrom the following steps:

* Find all viral regions (connected components), additionally for each region keeping track of the frontier (neighboring uncontaminated cells), and the perimeter of the region.

* Disinfect the most viral region, adding it's perimeter to the answer.

* Spread the virus in the remaining regions outward by 1 square.
</details>
