<!--|This file generated by command(leetcode description); DO NOT EDIT.    |-->
<!--+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-->
<!--|@author    awesee <openset.wang@gmail.com>                           |-->
<!--|@link      https://github.com/awesee                                 |-->
<!--|@home      https://github.com/awesee/leetcode                        |-->
<!--+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-->

[< Previous](../count-different-palindromic-subsequences "Count Different Palindromic Subsequences")
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　
[Next >](../my-calendar-iii "My Calendar III")

## [731. My Calendar II (Medium)](https://leetcode.com/problems/my-calendar-ii "我的日程安排表 II")

<p>You are implementing a program to use as your calendar. We can add a new event if adding the event will not cause a <strong>triple booking</strong>.</p>

<p>A <strong>triple booking</strong> happens when three events have some non-empty intersection (i.e., some moment is common to all the three events.).</p>

<p>The event can be represented as a pair of integers <code>start</code> and <code>end</code> that represents a booking on the half-open interval <code>[start, end)</code>, the range of real numbers <code>x</code> such that <code>start &lt;= x &lt; end</code>.</p>

<p>Implement the <code>MyCalendarTwo</code> class:</p>

<ul>
	<li><code>MyCalendarTwo()</code> Initializes the calendar object.</li>
	<li><code>boolean book(int start, int end)</code> Returns <code>true</code> if the event can be added to the calendar successfully without causing a <strong>triple booking</strong>. Otherwise, return <code>false</code> and do not add the event to the calendar.</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input</strong>
[&quot;MyCalendarTwo&quot;, &quot;book&quot;, &quot;book&quot;, &quot;book&quot;, &quot;book&quot;, &quot;book&quot;, &quot;book&quot;]
[[], [10, 20], [50, 60], [10, 40], [5, 15], [5, 10], [25, 55]]
<strong>Output</strong>
[null, true, true, true, false, true, true]

<strong>Explanation</strong>
MyCalendarTwo myCalendarTwo = new MyCalendarTwo();
myCalendarTwo.book(10, 20); // return True, The event can be booked. 
myCalendarTwo.book(50, 60); // return True, The event can be booked. 
myCalendarTwo.book(10, 40); // return True, The event can be double booked. 
myCalendarTwo.book(5, 15);  // return False, The event ca not be booked, because it would result in a triple booking.
myCalendarTwo.book(5, 10); // return True, The event can be booked, as it does not use time 10 which is already double booked.
myCalendarTwo.book(25, 55); // return True, The event can be booked, as the time in [25, 40) will be double booked with the third event, the time [40, 50) will be single booked, and the time [50, 55) will be double booked with the second event.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= start &lt; end &lt;= 10<sup>9</sup></code></li>
	<li>At most <code>1000</code> calls will be made to <code>book</code>.</li>
</ul>

### Related Topics
  [[Design](../../tag/design/README.md)]
  [[Segment Tree](../../tag/segment-tree/README.md)]
  [[Ordered Set](../../tag/ordered-set/README.md)]

### Similar Questions
  1. [My Calendar I](../my-calendar-i) (Medium)
  1. [My Calendar III](../my-calendar-iii) (Hard)

### Hints
<details>
<summary>Hint 1</summary>
Store two sorted lists of intervals: one list will be all times that are at least single booked, and another list will be all times that are definitely double booked.  If none of the double bookings conflict, then the booking will succeed, and you should update your single and double bookings accordingly.
</details>
