<!--|This file generated by command(leetcode description); DO NOT EDIT.    |-->
<!--+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-->
<!--|@author    awesee <openset.wang@gmail.com>                           |-->
<!--|@link      https://github.com/awesee                                 |-->
<!--|@home      https://github.com/awesee/leetcode                        |-->
<!--+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-->

[< Previous](../design-bitset "Design Bitset")
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　
[Next >](../unique-substrings-with-equal-digit-frequency "Unique Substrings With Equal Digit Frequency")

## [2167. Minimum Time to Remove All Cars Containing Illegal Goods (Hard)](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-time-to-remove-all-cars-containing-illegal-goods "移除所有载有违禁货物车厢所需的最少时间")

<p>You are given a <strong>0-indexed</strong> binary string <code>s</code> which represents a sequence of train cars. <code>s[i] = &#39;0&#39;</code> denotes that the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> car does <strong>not</strong> contain illegal goods and <code>s[i] = &#39;1&#39;</code> denotes that the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> car does contain illegal goods.</p>

<p>As the train conductor, you would like to get rid of all the cars containing illegal goods. You can do any of the following three operations <strong>any</strong> number of times:</p>

<ol>
	<li>Remove a train car from the <strong>left</strong> end (i.e., remove <code>s[0]</code>) which takes 1 unit of time.</li>
	<li>Remove a train car from the <strong>right</strong> end (i.e., remove <code>s[s.length - 1]</code>) which takes 1 unit of time.</li>
	<li>Remove a train car from <strong>anywhere</strong> in the sequence which takes 2 units of time.</li>
</ol>

<p>Return <em>the <strong>minimum</strong> time to remove all the cars containing illegal goods</em>.</p>

<p>Note that an empty sequence of cars is considered to have no cars containing illegal goods.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> s = &quot;<strong><u>11</u></strong>00<strong><u>1</u></strong>0<strong><u>1</u></strong>&quot;
<strong>Output:</strong> 5
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
One way to remove all the cars containing illegal goods from the sequence is to
- remove a car from the left end 2 times. Time taken is 2 * 1 = 2.
- remove a car from the right end. Time taken is 1.
- remove the car containing illegal goods found in the middle. Time taken is 2.
This obtains a total time of 2 + 1 + 2 = 5. 

An alternative way is to
- remove a car from the left end 2 times. Time taken is 2 * 1 = 2.
- remove a car from the right end 3 times. Time taken is 3 * 1 = 3.
This also obtains a total time of 2 + 3 = 5.

5 is the minimum time taken to remove all the cars containing illegal goods. 
There are no other ways to remove them with less time.
</pre>

<p><strong>Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> s = &quot;00<strong><u>1</u></strong>0&quot;
<strong>Output:</strong> 2
<strong>Explanation:</strong>
One way to remove all the cars containing illegal goods from the sequence is to
- remove a car from the left end 3 times. Time taken is 3 * 1 = 3.
This obtains a total time of 3.

Another way to remove all the cars containing illegal goods from the sequence is to
- remove the car containing illegal goods found in the middle. Time taken is 2.
This obtains a total time of 2.

Another way to remove all the cars containing illegal goods from the sequence is to 
- remove a car from the right end 2 times. Time taken is 2 * 1 = 2. 
This obtains a total time of 2.

2 is the minimum time taken to remove all the cars containing illegal goods. 
There are no other ways to remove them with less time.</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= s.length &lt;= 2 * 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>s[i]</code> is either <code>&#39;0&#39;</code> or <code>&#39;1&#39;</code>.</li>
</ul>

### Related Topics
  [[String](../../tag/string/README.md)]
  [[Dynamic Programming](../../tag/dynamic-programming/README.md)]

### Hints
<details>
<summary>Hint 1</summary>
Build an array withoutFirst where withoutFirst[i] stores the minimum time to remove all the cars containing illegal goods from the ‘suffix’ of the sequence starting from the ith car without using any type 1 operations.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Hint 2</summary>
Next, build an array onlyFirst where onlyFirst[i] stores the minimum time to remove all the cars containing illegal goods from the ‘prefix’ of the sequence ending on the ith car using only type 1 operations.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Hint 3</summary>
Finally, we can compare the best way to split the operations amongst these two types by finding the minimum time across all onlyFirst[i] + withoutFirst[i + 1].
</details>
